[AUDIO JINGLE]
[AUDIO LOGO]
>> This was me, 2018,
feeling good, feeling trim,
practicing what I was preaching.
I was eating a low-carb
paleo-based diet.
I was intermittent fasting.
I was exercising.
And I had maintained the
same weight for years.
And then something happened.
I gained 20 pounds
in six months.
Me, the nutritionist,
the weight loss expert,
the hormone specialist.
What happened?
I hit menopause, or should
I say menopause hit me
like a freight train.
Now although it's
unusual to hit menopause
at the age of 42,
which I was, it's
not unusual for women
to gain a lot of weight
very quickly from
losing their hormones,
even those that are
doing everything right.
We begin perimenopause typically
between the ages of 35 and 40,
and we begin to lose three
vital hormones-- estrogen,
progesterone, and testosterone.
And between the ages of
35 and 40, the first to go
is progesterone.
Takes a deep dive, as you
can see, from the graph.
Now we produce the majority
of our progesterone
when we ovulate.
And as we start getting into
our late 30s, early 40s,
we don't ovulate as
often and, eventually,
we don't ovulate at all.
So progesterone goes
down, down, down.
Now progesterone is
key for metabolism.
When you produce
progesterone, your metabolism
actually goes up.
So over time, we're not
producing very much progesterone
anymore, which means the
metabolism starts to go down.
Progesterone is also
super important for sleep.
It acts on what's called the
GABA receptors of your brain.
And you've probably
all heard of GABA.
It's in a lot of supplements,
a lot of sleep supplements.
It's very calming.
So without the progesterone,
now we're not sleeping so well.
And we know when
you're not sleeping,
you can actually become
insulin-resistant
from poor sleep.
Even just one
night of poor sleep
can raise your blood glucose.
And because
progesterone is super
important for that relaxation,
calming effect, without it,
we can start getting anxiety.
And I'm sorry, ladies,
but who really wants
to eat that great big
bowl of healthy salad
with that lean chicken breast
on top, with the olive oil on it
when you haven't slept, you're
a little bit insulin-resistant,
and you've got anxiety?
No, we want the
bowl of chocolate
with some ice cream on
top and maybe a little bit
of whipped cream
drizzled on the top.
And weight starts to go up.
Then between the ages,
typically, of 45 and 50,
we start to lose estrogen,
a specific estrogen called
estradiol.
And most women, we associate
estrogen with weight gain,
but actually, the
loss of estradiol
can cause more weight gain
than any other hormonal loss.
Why?
Because estradiol is needed
to help process blood glucose.
So as estrogen begins to drop,
blood glucose begins to rise,
and we become even
more insulin-resistant
and we start to store
that energy as fat.
Bad cholesterol
will start to go up.
Estradiol is needed to make a
very important antidepressant
neurotransmitter
called serotonin.
So now we've got the low
metabolism, we're not sleeping,
we've got anxiety, oh,
and we're depressed.
Let's just throw that on top.
Yeah, we're really wanting to
eat healthy now, aren't we?
More weight gain, and
typically, all in the belly.
Lucky us.
Hey, ladies, lucky us.
[LAUGHTER]
Now testosterone, most
women think of testosterone
as a man's hormone and
it's all for the guys.
Well, we produce
more testosterone
than we do estrogen
or progesterone
in our fertile years.
So testosterone begins to drop.
And testosterone is needed
to maintain and build
muscle tissue.
And the more muscle you have,
the better your metabolic rate
is going to be.
As well, muscle helps us
to process blood glucose.
And as we start losing
this testosterone,
we can develop sarcopenia,
the loss of muscle.
And once again, blood sugar
can continue to go up.
More weight gain.
80% of women will feel the
symptoms of perimenopause.
And one of the most
common symptoms reported
is weight gain.
And 100% of you women,
if you have not already,
will lose ovarian function.
And you cannot run
your way out of that.
You cannot supplement
You cannot intermittent-fast
your way out.
And you cannot diet your
way out of hormonal loss.
Now don't get me wrong.
All of those things have
to be part of this picture,
have to be part of this
journey through to menopause.
We have to eat well.
We have to intermittent fast.
We've got to sleep.
We've got to watch
our stress levels.
We've got to
maintain the muscle.
We need community.
We need each other more
than any other time
while we go through menopause.
But without these
vital hormones,
you will only get so far.
We know that women who
replace their hormones
have a drastic improvement in
overall health and vitality.
We also know from
extensive research
that the majority-- not all,
but the majority of women
can safely replace
their hormones.
We know from the research
that replacing your hormones
can actually reduce your risk of
cardiac mortality by up to 47%.
That is the number
one killer of women.
We know from a recent
study that women
who replace their estradiol for
six years or longer in menopause
had up to a 75% to 80% reduction
in developing Alzheimer's
and dementia, also known
as type III diabetes.
We know from a cohort
study on menopausal women
that the women who
replaced their hormones
had a whopping 69% reduction
in developing type II diabetes.
We know from the research that
women who replace their hormones
can have up to a 33% reduction
in all-cause mortality,
up to 30% reduction
in all cancers,
including breast cancer.
And we know from the research
that the women who replace
their hormones have less weight
gain than the women who don't.
So ladies, if you want to
sail through this time,
feeling your best,
looking your best,
you have got to
mind your hormones.
Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
[AUDIO LOGO]